because it's very unrealistic to be in a
niche and being like you know what I'm
gonna dominate this Niche and Gobble up
100 of the market share or even 20 30
that's very hard to do but on the flip
side it's easier to say hey I'm gonna go
after this multi-billion dollar market
and I'm gonna gobble up 0.1 of it right
you gobble up even something small
that's enough money where you're
generating millions of dollars where
it's meaningful
welcome to Young and profiting podcast
Neil
uh thanks for having me
really excited Yap fam one of my
favorite topics to talk about is
marketing as you guys know I am a
marketer and today I'm thrilled to
report that we have one of the most
legendary and popular marketers in the
world joining us and that's Neil Patel
if you don't know Neil he's a digital
marketer a New York Times bestselling
author and entrepreneur and an investor
after founding crazy egg kissmetrics and
other multi-million dollar companies
Neil now focuses on running his SEO tool
Uber suggests as well as his agency NP
digital which specializes in paid
campaigns SEO social media and content
marketing he's worked with global Rams
like Amazon NBC GM HP and Viacom to name
a few so we're obviously very excited to
talk with Neil and in this episode we're
going to share his journey of how he
became one of the world's most
recognized internet marketers he'll
break down his biggest digital marketing
tips we'll try to cover everything from
social media to email marketing to SEO
and lastly we'll get his Insight on
marketing trends for 2023 and how we can
future proof content in the age of AI so
Neil like I mentioned earlier you were
one of our generation's most notable
marketers and you're basically a
household name when it comes to
marketers so congratulations on all your
success you're too kind I don't know if
my name is that household but uh you're
too kind
well when it comes to marketers you are
for sure and you've always had an
entrepreneurial and hard-working spirit
and I was surprised to learn I didn't
know this before I was researching for
this podcast that you actually started
your first company when you were 16. and
so I'd love to understand some of the
jobs and experiences you had as a
teenager in terms of the work that you
did and also how you ended up getting
into internet marketing and dabbling
into that just as a teenager
yeah so when I was a young kid I always
had a drive to make money which isn't
the best reason to start a business but
from everything when I was like around
15 I was selling like CDs and music and
high school which right now people would
be like you're crazy why would people
want CDs but back then that's how people
listen to music
and from there uh sold you know cable TV
and stuff like that to parents without
getting into too much detail I probably
shouldn't have done some of those things
and then as I grew up I was just like
you know what I want a high paying job
and the reason I want a high-paying job
is my sister at the time was working for
Oracle consultant
and this Oracle consultant was making
like a hundred and twenty dollars an
hour sometimes like 200 plus dollars an
hour that's a lot of money
and keep in mind that's around 21 years
ago so 21 22 years ago
that's even right now even though when
people are like oh I make 100 bucks an
hour people be ecstatic with that right
100 200 bucks an hour 20 plus years ago
was much more than it is today you could
buy homes back then for a few hundred
grand you know now you need a home for
depending on what city you live in some
cities you can't even get a home for
under a million bucks
so my sister worked for this Oracle
consultant I started looking online for
Oracle consulting jobs so I went to the
site called monster.com it's not popular
now everyone uses LinkedIn which you
know all about but back then people were
using monster.com to find jobs so I was
typing in all these Oracle Financial uh
consulting jobs and I couldn't qualify
for any of them didn't have a college
degree
didn't have Oracle certifications so I
was missing out just on a ton of Revenue
but I wanted that Revenue so I started
taking nighttime college classes
and while it's taking nighttime college
classes at the same time because they
didn't qualify for any of those jobs I
noticed that monster.com was making
hundreds of millions of dollars I'm like
you know what if I just replicate this
business even if I make one percent of
what they make I'll be a rich kid so I
created my own job website paid some
contractors that I found online use the
money I made from you know picking up
trash at a theme park to cleaning
restrooms to selling CDs get all the
money that I could find uh raise I think
it was like 500 bucks or 900 from
college kid I mean uh High School
classmates so I would go to around my
class try to get money from some of them
and started the business the job board
also was going to college at night time
job boards started getting more traffic
learned internet marketing on my own did
a ton of research
got traffic but made no money
literally just making zero money I was
devastated I was like I'm getting like a
hundred thousand visitors a month no
money this sucks so I'm like you know
forget this I'm just gonna go forward go
to college and wrap things up and just
go get that Oracle certification just
get the 100 200 an hour so try going
down that route and while I was in high
school still at 16 at this time
my first class was Speech 101 gave a
speech on how Google algorithm worked
and how to get Google traffic someone in
the class was working at a power supply
manufacturer and there's like man can we
end up hiring you my boss is looking for
someone like you I'm in sales here
brushing up on my sales skills since I'm
in that speech class but I know they're
looking for someone who understands
Google
so they gave me a gig long story short
was for five grand a month I was
ecstatic that's a lot of money even
right now that's a lot of money
so 60 Grand a year I didn't know that I
was what kind of impact I was making on
that business eventually I found out I
was driving around 25 million dollars a
year in Revenue to the business through
online marketing
so then the owner of the company had a
son the son owned the Ad Agency and then
he introduced me to Blue Cross Country
Wide uh ING Direct which was like the
first online banker what is one of the
first well-known online banks and he was
giving me five grand a month per client
and just arbitraging it and charging
more on the other end and over time you
know it was around 16 17 years old at
this time I was making 20 grand a month
and that's how I got my start it's so
amazing you know it just goes to show
that if you find your passion early if
you stay focused you know you've been
doing this basically for two decades now
your company is running you know ad
campaigns spending billions of dollars
which with huge Global Brands like
you've totally made it and it just goes
to show how much you can do when you
focus and you become like a true true
expert in your field
totally right but I didn't learn the
focus thing probably until
13 14 years into my entrepreneurial
Journey it was it was late if I focus on
from day one undoing the right things I
would have a much much much bigger
business but that's a mistake that I
learned uh better late than never I just
wish I could turn back the clock in
focus well it's funny now we have like
all these resources like young and
profiting podcasts where we get to talk
to Alex for Mosey and he Scrolls us on
like why we need to focus and all these
things so uh you know it was a different
situation when you first started you
didn't really have as much resources as
everybody else so speaking on you know
getting your start I've got a lot of
young listeners and these young
listeners often are really confused
about where to focus their attention how
to find their passion how to understand
you know where they should focus in
terms of their passion that will also
make money what's your advice to them uh
you know considering the fact that
you've basically dominated this internet
marketing niche
uh this is one of my favorite questions
or topics more so not really questions
but it's one of my favorite topics
I've met a lot of young people they've
asked me the same thing I didn't know my
passion would be internet marketing back
then it wasn't really popular and what I
found is
when we're born and we grow up and we
start getting to elementary school we
have these ideas of what we want to be
astronaut policeman firefighter you know
I wanted to be a doctor when I was a
little kid
and people believe that a lot of others
just know what they want to do and then
they grow up and that's what they do but
that's not actually true majority of the
people that I've met and talked to and I
also wrote a book called hustle with uh
I had co-authors and we did a lot of
research and we found that majority of
the people
aren't really born and be like I want to
be a doctor and then they grow up being
a doctor the way most people find their
passion is they actually try a lot of
different things
and typically the stuff that they're not
good at they just don't do much of or if
they don't like it they just don't do
much of
but typically what you find is when
people try a lot of different things
they stumble on upon stuff that they're
naturally good at and you tend to love
the stuff that you're naturally good at
and you tend to be more passionate about
it and that's what you should end up
focusing on but the way you end up
figuring it out is not spending ten
thousand hours to master something it's
just a ton of trial and error and you
just constantly try new things
I totally agree with you and I think one
of the reasons why you probably found
your passion so early is because you
were doing a lot even as a young kid and
experimenting and getting a lot of
experiences
holy right did too many businesses some
I loved some I hated but live and learn
yeah you learned from it okay so let's
uh talking about niches let's talk about
picking your Market I know that
selecting the right Market when you're
starting a side hustle or when you're
becoming an entrepreneur is so important
and I was talking to you offline about
how I have this LinkedIn master class
and I teach people how to grow on
LinkedIn how to master their content go
viral how to convert leads into sales
but where I see them struggling is that
they don't have product Market fit their
offer isn't really right they don't
really know who they're marketing to and
then my strategies may not work if they
don't have that all lined up and
perfected so I'd love to understand from
you what makes a good audience uh Market
what makes a good audience Market to me
is a big Tam so assuming you find
something you're passionate about by
just through trial and error you got to
make sure you're focusing on a big time
everyone says the richest are in the
niches that's far from true if you look
at the majority of the large
corporations out there like Tesla's
Automotive right people need cars in
this world if if you look at Microsoft
everyone needs software to run these
computers and digital devices that we're
on if you look at Google we're relying
on search for anything and someone
organizing data and feeding it to us in
a very organized fashion if you look at
Apple we need all these Hardware pieces
that they're selling from headphones to
cell phones to laptops right these are
large markets if you look again look at
the biggest companies in the world
they're going after large markets and
not niches
so the key is to go after a big Tam now
you can start in a niche if you want and
there's nothing wrong with that but you
need to make sure that you can expand
that Niche into a large Market because
the amount of effort it takes to Market
a business whether it's on LinkedIn or
any social platform or even SEO
for a niche compared to a large Market
is almost the same amount of effort sure
it's harder in a large Market it takes
longer to see results but it's the same
process in the same time and energy that
you're putting into it so might as well
go after something big because it's very
unrealistic to be in a niche and being
like you know what I'm going to dominate
this Niche and Gobble up 100 of the
market share or even 20 30 that's very
hard to do well on the flip side it's
easier to say hey I'm going to go after
this multi-billion dollar market and I'm
gonna gobble up 0.1 of it right you
gobble up even something small that's
enough money where you're generating
millions of dollars where it's
meaningful right for example if it's a
10 billion dollar market that you're
going after you got about 0.1 percent
that's big enough to create amazing life
and a business totally and just to
Define some things from my listeners who
may not know Tam is total addressable
market so you're saying you need a big
sort of more broad Market you don't want
to get two in the niches because they're
really hard to find that's like finding
a needle and a haystack when you've got
uh when you're a marketer you want to
find your audience in math you want to
Target them in Mass that's how you're
going to Target them in the cheapest way
most effective way if you have to find
like 10 people here or 10 people there
10 it's like you are just gonna exhaust
yourself and it's going to be very
expensive exactly right you need to go
after a big market so that way you don't
have to have frequency issues of like oh
I've shown my ad to 500 people all right
how many more people can shoot well
that's my only audience or even 10 000
people it's not enough you need to go
after the masses yeah so I know that you
have a formula for marketing that you
talk about could you break that down for
us
sure so number one go after a really big
Tam once you have a big Tam then if you
want to do well you need to take an omni
Channel approach from LinkedIn to
Facebook to Instagram to Whatsapp
marketing through text through email
marketing to SEO to paid advertising it
doesn't matter if you like paid ads on
Facebook or not if it's profitable it's
profitable you got to keep leveraging it
and then from there you got to figure
out how to add in the upsells and
downsells because if you look at
marketing over time it continually costs
more and more so you got to add in the
upsells and downsells in other words
build that funnel figure out how to
generate more revenue from that same
customer and if they're buying more
write a purchase it allows you to spend
more money on marketing as well as
figure out a way to generate reoccurring
Revenue so how do you sell to them
multiple times and it may not be
reoccurring in the sense that most
people think where someone's subscribing
for ten dollars a month but it could be
reoccurring as simple as I built an
amazing product or service I product
Market fit where I'm Amazon and people
will just buy toothpaste from me oh in
the next day they'll buy toilet paper
and then they buy some shoes and then
they buy a t-shirt or a headphone or a
laptop and Amazon is continually making
money from you each and every single
month even though a lot of people aren't
subscribing to reoccurring products
I'd love to dig deeper on a couple
things that you mentioned so can you
help us understand some examples of an
upsell and a downsell
yeah no problem at all so with upsells
and down sales this key is speed and
automation I learned that from a guy
named Ryan Dice and he was spot on on it
and I did a lot of testing and I found
that if you're offering an upseller down
sell anything that gives a results
faster or an automated way tends to
perform better but but to keep it simple
before we go into that let's just take
McDonald's as an example so with
McDonald's if you buy anything from
McDonald's at least when I was a little
kid they would say would you like fries
with that that's the example of an
upsell you say oh I'm not sure oh would
you like uh to super size your meal
that's another example of an upsell or
would you like a Happy Meal right
and typically upsell is you're selling
something that could be more so you
order a burger and that is upsell to get
them into a Happy Meal or a combo where
they're getting a drink and a fries a
down sell could be hey you want a burger
all right cool uh you already bought
that would you like large fries oh no
it's too expensive how about a small
fries we're running a promotion on that
it'll only costs you 30 cents more when
you combine your burger with a small fry
you don't even have to spend a dollar
more it's just 30 cents more that's the
example of a downsell because you're
getting them on a lower price point uh
when they're saying no to something that
is more expensive
and typically what you want to do with
your marketing is how can you sell
something that will get them the results
faster in the automate away so let's use
Beauty as an example because it's the
easiest uh example that I can think of
let's say people want wrinkle cream you
can probably tell I don't use wrinkle
cream but let's say wrinkle cream
because people don't want wrinkles
if you say hey check out this light it's
purple or red or blue in color and if
you put it on your face
it'll get rid of the wrinkles faster so
you'll get smoother skin with rest
wrinkle or less wrinkles in quicker time
so instead of three months maybe it'll
take you only one month
that kind of upsell does really well
because you're getting the results
faster or another way is hey here's some
wrinkle cream
here's this device that you can just
wear when you sleep and it just puts it
in your face for you overnight and it
just injects it I'm making it up or
here's this toothbrush instead of buying
it here's this attachment that you can
add on for another 50 bucks is you just
put in your mouth and it brushes your
mouth for you that's the example of
automation where people pay for that
because like oh cool so I can walk
around my house while this device
brushes my teeth for me and I'm good to
go yeah so there reason why all of this
is so important is because we want to
increase the lifetime value of our
customers right so every customer costs
a certain amount of money for us to
acquire if we're using paid ads
sometimes it's free if you're using
organic strategies and at the end of the
day we want to make sure that we're
increasing the LTV or lifetime value of
our customers so can you further break
down your perspective on that or any
tips around increasing lifetime value
so lifetime value is about how can you
get people to keep just buying more and
more from you whether it's reoccurring
or upsells or down cells but the key to
really increasing the lifetime value is
just understanding what issues people
have with your business your products
and services and just talking to them
and saying hey what could I do better
how can I more Delight you and just
getting that feedback and adjusting your
products and services is how you
optimize the experience
and increase your lifetime value